with a resume loaded with great ones
beholder once again a scintillating
performance today just never gave them a
chance
cantering home and McGary stevens in the
clement l hurt a pair of eclipse awards
beholder just playing to the absolute
five and two Breeders Cup championships
beholder has established herself firmly
atop the distaff division on Saturday
she takes on the boys for the first time
and she'll try to become the first
female to take down the Pacific Classic
the first female attempting to win the
Pacific Classic the TVG Pacific Classic
this Saturday and I'll tell you beholder
a beast
I think it's putting it as an
understatement and joining us on the
phone is a gentleman who's had a lot of
experience in the Mandela barn and is
also a two-time TVG Pacific Classic
winner way back in 97 and 93 with
Bertrand O and gentlemen good friend of
the show he's a good colleague and a
friend jockey Gary Stevens the Hall of
Famer Gary welcome back to the show
thanks Peter how are you doing well sir
doing well have gotten out of Del Mar
yet but planning on doing it at some
point how about you this has been again
another great meet for you yeah it
really has very enjoyable need at this
point and hopefully we can put some
icing on the cake this weekend beautiful
weather down here it's cooled off a
little bit and just enjoying the nice
breeze right now well as far as beholder
is concerned I mean what can you say
about her she's an absolute beast last
time out in the Clement hers it's just I
guess it's fair to say it look
effortlessly the way she was doing it
how is she training and how are you
feeling about her chances well Believe
It or Not Peter it's hard to say hard to
recognize but you know we believe he's
she's improved upon what she was last
year and even in 2013 when she
the distaff and we're holding the I mean
that's the final goal at the end of the
year is it's the Breeders Cup in which
direction Richard decided to go and mr.
Hughes that'll be left up to them but
we've got to get through this task on
the weekend and you know obviously she's
never faced boys before she's never been
a mile and a quarter before but she
hasn't proved she's on top of her game
right now she's super fresh a breather
on Monday and we're looking forward to
it we're really excited about it
Gary here in the u.s. I think we make a
little bit too much out of the fact of
the quote/unquote lady facing the boys
you obviously have a major mark not only
here but across the pond in Europe
Australia it's not such a big deal in
fact it's common practice do you think
we make too much out of it or do you
think that's just something that has
happened for years and it's changing
well I think it takes a special
individual to be able to do it and we
saw it happened yesterday in the German
international Cape Horn being taken down
by a fairly a three-year-old filly over
there at fifty to one and when the right
you've got a when they're on their game
I think that you know top trainers
recognize it and by alright Richard and
Ella is a very conservative type guy
until it's time to step out of the box
and he obviously you know prior to
deployment her she had mentioned
assuming what may be in store forgot the
right kind of race in the climate hearse
and at the 16th poll I recognized that
she had gotten the right kind of race
and I didn't let her gallop out a whole
lot afterwards knowing that that's
probably I'm sure Richard had a smile on
his face coming through the stretch and
he was probably looking at the Pacific
Classic at that point and everything is
gone according to plan and the week's
sense of promoters as far as the the
post position is concerned obviously
Papa Mandela you know he has his
opinions you as the rider you've been on
the track all season long are you happy
with the post position draw it does it
matter what's your opinion well I I
didn't really care where I drew I had my
Rather's you know I I would rather be on
the outside looking in with the filly
like like her it gives me a lot more
options that really Peter she's so
tractable and and so easy to put where I
need to put her once the that first
stride out of the gate
she's like driving a Ferrari and you
know it just it makes things a lot
simpler simplifies my game a little bit
you know she drew the one hole in the
Clement hearse there was a lot of other
speed in there and I tell ya I was
anxious going into that race and
probably felt more pressure because
there was other speed and there are
nothing of her class really but I didn't
sleep real well the two nights leading
up to it then I slept great last night
and I'm gonna sleep great tonight
tomorrow night hopefully but you know
I've got catch the flight is drawn down
in the seven hole and I know him so well
and and I've got an idea what what he's
coming to where he's going to be and and
fine drawing down in the free post
position I believe down towards the
inside and we know where where he wants
to be so I think the race on paper is
pretty straightforward then going a mile
and a quarter I you know it really
didn't matter but I I'm pleased that we
drew the nine close positioning Gary if
you had to say I know a lot of times
when when riders have been a ho bored
horses for extended period of time they
know their quirks they're Picard per
could that picadillo z-- they're their
overall personality if you had to say
beholders personality and biggest weapon
is what would it be well holder has
changed from when I first started
writing her at the three year old she
was a keg of dynamite ready to explode
at any time and she's gone from being a
thirsty teenager to just a laid-back
grandma and it's for to her benefit she
saved all of that energy in the post
parade now and we're gonna have a big
crowd out there on Saturday obviously
and she's dealt with big crowds before
but she's just a completely different
individual now than she was as the
three-year-old and that's become her
biggest weapon now she's always had the
speed and athleticism but she's a bigger
more powerful mare now and she's she's a
super intelligent individuals probably
the most intelligent horse of either sex
that I've written and she's putting all
of that energy into erasers now and and
it's really enjoyable and it it's fun to
fun to be on her back yeah well Gary we
wish you all the luck in the world thank
you so much for being with us today man
good luck and good luck with the rest of
the meet and we'll talk soon thanks
Peter
all right buddy Gary Stevens the Hall of
Famer beholder at EVG Pacific classic
coming up Saturday